"India has had a very good record against Australia and, before the 2004/05 tour, never being defeated by"
"Australia in a Test Series in India since 1969. This was the reason for Australian captain Steve Waugh labelling India as the ""Final Frontier"".[14] The famous 2001 Australian tour of India saw Harbhajan Singh become the first Indian to take a Test hat-trick and started a good run for the team, as India beat Australia 2–"
1. India also came runners up to Australia in the final of the 2003 Cricket World Cup.
"Since 2004, India had not been doing as well in One-day Internationals. The players who took India to"
"great heights over the past ten years such as Sachin Tendulkar, Sourav Ganguly and Anil Kumble grew older and did not maintain their form and fitness. Following the series loss to Australia, India collapsed on the final day in the Third Test in Bangalore in early 2005 against Pakistan to squander a series victory, and then lost four consecutive ODIs against Pakistan. This was exacerbated by the suspension handed to captain Ganguly for slow over-rates. Greg Chappell took over from John Wright as the new coach of the Indian cricket team following the series, and replaced Kumble and V. V. S. Laxman from the ODI team with younger players. India's unconvincing ODI form continued, scraping past a West Indian team depleted by industrial action in the 2005 Indian Oil Cup and a similarly depleted Zimbabwean team only to be defeated twice in the finals by New Zealand, continuing a poor ODI finals record."
The tension resulted in a fallout between Chappell and Ganguly lead to a confidential email sent by
"Chappell to the BCCI being leaked, in which he condemned the leadership and performance of Ganguly. After a series of high-profile board meetings and public jousting including some players, Rahul Dravid was installed as the captain, triggering a revival in the team's fortunes. The Indians subsequently defeated Sri Lanka 6–1 in a home series. An important part about this series was the discovery of the young talent of the team, including Mahendra Singh Dhoni, Suresh Raina, Gautam Gambhir and Irfan Pathan. The team also beat the Sri Lankans in the Test series 2-0 to displace England from its position in second place in the ICC"
"Test rankings, but India slipped back by losing the high-profile[15] series to Pakistan. Indian team continued its good form in ODIs, beating Pakistan 4–1 in Pakistan. India achieved the world-record of winning 17 successive matches chasing the total. India convincingly won England's tour of India winning the series 5–"
"1. After leveling the DLF Cup series 1–1 in Abu Dhabi, India travelled to West Indies where they lost the ODI series 1–4 to a weak West Indies team which was ranked 8th in the ICC ODI Ranking. The series loss again questioned the Indian team's ability to play away from the Sub-continent and the chances of the Indian team to win the 2007 Cricket World Cup.[16]"
"Dravid's captaincy was cut short in the ill-fated 2007 World Cup, where India were out of the league stage"
following an embarrassing loss to Bangladesh. This was followed by Mahendra Singh Dhoni taking over the reins.